Literature is most often understood as
literature, that is
literature as an art form. However, this
understanding that developed during the era of romanticism,
should not be directly applied to culture
epochs distant from today.
Ancient scientific treatises and
religious and mythological works —
such as Hesiod's Theogony or
"On the nature of things" Lucretius - from the point
contemporaries' point of view
opposed, for example, to epic
poems ("Iliad" by Homer or "Aeneid"
Virgil) as non-fiction
artistic. In Russia back in the 1820s
critics agreed that the best
samples of Russian prose - "History
Russian State" Karamzin and
"Experience in the theory of taxes" by Nikolai Turgenev [1].
Separating the fiction of others
periods from religious literature,
philosophical, scientific, journalistic, we
projecting our modern ideas
into the past.

However, literature has a number
universal properties, unchanged in all
national cultures and on everything
throughout human history, although
each of these properties is associated with
certain problems and reservations.

Literature includes author's texts (in
including anonymous ones, that is, those
which the author for one reason or another
unknown, and collective, that is
written by a group of people - sometimes quite
numerous, if we are talking, for example,
about an encyclopedia, but still definite).
That the text belongs to a certain
author, created by him, it is important in this case not
from a legal point of view (cf. copyright
right) and not from the psychological (author as
living person, information about which the reader
may try to extract from readable
text), but because the presence of the text
a certain author provides this
completeness of the text: the author puts
the last dot, and after that the text
starts to exist on its own. Story
culture knows the types of texts that exist
according to other rules, for example,
folklore: due to lack of authorship
the text itself is not finally fixed, and the one
who retells it again or
rewrites, is free to contribute to it
changes, sometimes significant ones. Those
or other records of such text may be
associated with the name of a writer or scientist,
who made such an entry (for example,
"Folk Russian fairy tales" Afanasiev),
however, such a literary fixation
non-literary text does not cancel
the possibility of the existence of other versions of it,
and the author of such an entry belongs precisely
this record, not the story itself.
Another property is related to the previous property:
literature includes written texts and
do not include oral. Oral creativity
historically predates writing and
before, unlike written, not
was fixable. Folklore has always been
oral (until the 19th century, when they began
appear its written forms -
for example, girlish albums). Modernity
knows, however, transitional and boundary
cases. Thus, in national cultures,
made great strides in the 20th century
development, have been preserved or are being preserved
oral storytellers
(poetic, on the verge of a song) creativity,
- before such songs would go into folklore
and existed in it, changing and
developing in the mouths of other performers,
however, in recent times, writings
for example, Jambula were subjected to
written fixation immediately after its
creation and therefore exist as
literary. Another way to transform
oral creativity into written
called "literary notation":
for example, the memories of Zoya's mother and
Alexander Kosmodemyanskikh, repeatedly
published in a separate book, recorded from its
words and turned into a literary text
interviewed by the writer Frida
Vigdorova.
Literature includes texts, material
which are only words
human language, and do not include texts
synthetic and syncretic, that is
those in which the verbal component is not
can be divorced from the musical,
visual or otherwise. Song
or the opera itself is not part of
literature. If the song is written
composer to an existing text,
written by a poet, then problems and not
arises; in the 20th century, however, it again acquired
widespread ancient tradition,
according to which the same author
creates both verbal text and music and
(as a rule) he performs the resulting
work. The question is how much
legitimately extract from the resulting
synthetic product only
verbal component and consider it
as an independent literary
work remains debatable. IN
in some cases synthetic works
still accepted and recognized
as literary if non-verbal
there are relatively few elements.
(such, for example, is the famous "squiggle"
in The Adventures of Tristram Shandy by Lawrence
Stern or drawings in a famous nursery
book Sinken Hopp "Magic Chalk") or their
role fundamentally subordinate (as the role
formulas in math, chemical,
physical literature, even if they
occupy most of the text). Sometimes,
however, the place of additional visual
elements in a literary text so
great enough to consider it as pure
literary from a scientific point of view already
stretch: the most famous of these
texts - Saint-Exupery's fairy tale "Little
prince”, an important part of which are
copyright drawings.