Anton Pavlovich Chekhov (Ref. Anton
Pavlovich Chekhov) (January 17 (29), 1860, Taganrog,
Yekaterinoslav Governorate (now
Rostov region), Russian Empire - 2
(15) July 1904, Badenweiler, German
empire[3][4]) - Russian writer, prose writer,
playwright, publicist[5], doctor, public
figure in the field of charity[6][7][8].

Classic of world literature. Honorable
Academician of the Imperial Academy of Sciences
category of fine literature (1900-1902). One
of the most famous playwrights in the world. His
works have been translated into more than one hundred
languages. His plays, especially The Seagull,
"Three Sisters" and "The Cherry Orchard"
for more than a hundred years have been put in
many theaters in the world.

For 25 years of creativity - since graduation from
gymnasium in 1879 until his death in July 1904
Chekhov created more than five hundred different
works (short humorous
short stories, serious stories, plays)
many of which have become world classics
literature. Particular attention was paid to
himself "Steppe", "Boring story", "Duel",
"Ward No. 6" (1892), "House with a Mezzanine" (1896),
"Darling", "Jumper", "Story
unknown person”, “Guys”, “Man
in a case" (1897-98), "In the ravine", "Children",
"Drama on the hunt"; from the plays: "Ivanov", "The Seagull"
(1895; staged at the Moscow Art Theater in 1896, "Uncle Vanya" (1899,
also staged at the Moscow Art Theater), "Three Sisters" (1901-03
years, production at the Moscow Art Theater, "The Cherry Orchard"
(written from summer to December 1903 and January 1904,
staged at the Moscow Art Theater on January 17, 1904)

In addition to literary and medical work
Chekhov attached great importance
charitable activities in the field
helping the starving[9], children[6], peasants[10],
tuberculosis patients[7], was
Commissioner of the Board of Yalta
charitable society[8],
organized fundraising for
needy and regularly published in
newspaper texts on the situation
socially vulnerable groups of the population in
Russia[5].


Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky (October 30 [11
November] 1821, Moscow - January 28 [February 9] 1881,
Petersburg[2]) is a Russian writer,
thinker, philosopher and publicist[3].
Corresponding member of the St. Petersburg Academy
sciences since 1877 [4]. Classic of the world
literature, according to UNESCO, one of the most
most read writers in the world. Meeting
Dostoevsky's works consists of 12
novels, four short stories, 16 short stories and
many other works.

The early works of the writer, as well as
story "Notes from the House of the Dead"
contributed to the emergence of the genre
psychological prose[5].

He was sentenced in the case of the Petrashevites to four
years of hard labor, served his sentence in
military city of Omsk[6].

After his death, Dostoevsky was recognized
classic of Russian literature and one of
the world's best novelists,
considered the first representative
personalism in Russia. Russian creativity
writer had an impact on the world
literature, in particular on the work of a number
Nobel Prize winners for
literature, the philosophers Friedrich Nietzsche and
Jean-Paul Sartre, as well as on becoming
various psychological teachings[7] and
existentialism, his 1864 novella
"Notes from the Underground" is considered one of the
the first works of the existentialist
literature.

To the most significant works
writer include novels of the "great
Pentateuch "Crime and Punishment"
(1866), "Idiot" (1866), "Demons" (1872), "Teenager"
(1875), The Brothers Karamazov (1880)[8]. Many
famous works of Dostoevsky
filmed many times and
staged in the theater
ballet and opera performances.

"Verily, that was the golden age of our
literature,

the period of her innocence and bliss! .. "

M. A. Antonovich

M. Antonovich in his article called
"golden age of literature" beginning of the 19th century
- the period of creativity of A. S. Pushkin and N. V.
Gogol. Subsequently, this definition became
to characterize the literature of the entire XIX
centuries - up to the works of A.P.
Chekhov and L. N. Tolstoy.

What are the main features of the Russian
classical literature of this period?

Fashionable at the beginning of the century sentimentalism
gradually fades into the background
the formation of romanticism begins, and with
the middle of the century, realism already rules the ball.

New types of heroes appear in literature:
"little man" who most often
dies under pressure accepted in society
foundations and "an extra person" is a string
images, starting with Onegin and Pechorin.

Continuing the tradition of satirical
images suggested by M.
Fonvizin, in the literature of the XIX century
satirical depiction of vices
modern society becomes one of the
central motives. Often satire
takes on grotesque forms. Bright
examples are Gogol's "Nose" or "History
one city" by M.E. Saltykov-Shchedrin.

Another distinctive feature of literature
this period - acute social
orientation. Writers and poets are increasingly
appeal to socio-political
topics, often plunging into the field
psychology. This leitmotif pervades
works by I. S. Turgenev, F. M.
Dostoevsky, L. N. Tolstoy. Appears
new form - Russian realistic
novel, with its deep psychologism,
the harshest criticismness,
irreconcilable enmity with existing
foundations and loud calls for renewal.

Well, the main reason that prompted many
critics call the 19th century golden
century of Russian culture: the literature of this
period, despite a number of adverse
factors, had a strong influence on
the development of world culture as a whole.
Soaking up all the best that offered
world literature, Russian literature
was able to remain original and unique.

Russian writers of the 19th century
Content:

V.A. Zhukovsky
A.S. Griboyedov
A.S. Pushkin
M.Yu. Lermontov
N.V. Gogol
I.S. Turgenev
A.N. Ostrovsky
P.P. Ershov
I.A. Goncharov
L.N. Tolstoy
N.S. Leskov
N.G. Chernyshevsky
F.M. Dostoevsky
M.E. Saltykov-Shchedrin
A.P. Chekhov