The fate of the writer is perverse. He believed that
ten years after his death he will be forgotten,
although I hoped that it would be known
future Russian people because it
the search for “in a person ^ kb person” - “Russian
trait par excellence" that his
the direction "flows from the depths
the Christian spirit of the people" [Dostoevsky,
1883: 373].

To what extent do these words of Dostoevsky correspond
global aspirations and expectations
modern humanity?

In the 20th century, Dostoevsky became one of the most
famous Russian writers in the world.
Acclaimed intellectuals, critics and
writers have long put it on a par with
Shakespeare. No matter how to continue
literary series "Homer, Shakespeare ..." -
Dostoevsky deserves to be among them, even
if the account is limited to three world
geniuses.

Dostoevsky is revered all over the world -
novelist, psychologist, philosopher and
preacher. He calls today
partisan disputes and contrary
ratings, his reputation is still denigrated
dubious rumors and gossip, literary
myths and ordinary slander of envious people.

Despite the "politically incorrect" and
the conflict nature of his judgments, in Dostoevsky
many friends all over the world. It unites
people of different political persuasions,
cultures, civilizations, confessions. For many
readers, the author and his characters showed the image
Russia.

Dostoevsky has long surpassed himself in everything
myself.

About the world recognition of the writer
testify to millions of copies of his
books published in Russian and translated into
foreign languages, the study of his work
in middle and high school, theatrical
staging and film adaptations of his works,
thousands of monographs and hundreds of thousands of articles on
creative heritage of the writer.

Only in Russia, according to incomplete data from the Scientific
electronic library eLibrary.ru (RSCI) and
limited query (search by name,
abstracts, keywords), since 2016
over 1,000 articles on
Dostoevsky. And how many more are not on this list
included chapters from monographs and articles,
who are talking about Dostoevsky, but his
the name is not in titles, keywords and
annotations! Their number is increasing
six times: for example, 6,634 vs. 1,034
publications for 2020 Who reads daily from
three to twenty articles on Dostoevsky
Only in Russian? And in other languages?
Of course this thread is dominated
abstract and compilation articles, in
which the authors, when reading Dostoevsky, want
express yourself. This need is not worth
condemn - Dostoevsky's word creates a face
and the identity of their authors, but who will read these
experiences?..

Fyodor Mikhailovich Dostoevsky (October 30 [11
November] 1821, Moscow - January 28 [February 9] 1881,
Petersburg[2]) is a Russian writer,
thinker, philosopher and publicist[3].
Corresponding member of the St. Petersburg Academy
sciences since 1877 [4]. Classic of the world
literature, according to UNESCO, one of the most
most read writers in the world. Meeting
Dostoevsky's works consists of 12
novels, four short stories, 16 short stories and
many other works.

The early works of the writer, as well as
story "Notes from the House of the Dead"
contributed to the emergence of the genre
psychological prose[5].

He was sentenced in the case of the Petrashevites to four
years of hard labor, served his sentence in
military city of Omsk[6].

After his death, Dostoevsky was recognized
classic of Russian literature and one of
the world's best novelists,
considered the first representative
personalism in Russia. Russian creativity
writer had an impact on the world
literature, in particular on the work of a number
Nobel Prize winners for
literature, the philosophers Friedrich Nietzsche and
Jean-Paul Sartre, as well as on becoming
various psychological teachings[7] and
existentialism, his 1864 novella
"Notes from the Underground" is considered one of the
the first works of the existentialist
literature.

To the most significant works
writer include novels of the "great
Pentateuch "Crime and Punishment"
(1866), "Idiot" (1866), "Demons" (1872), "Teenager"
(1875), The Brothers Karamazov (1880)[8]. Many
famous works of Dostoevsky
filmed many times and
staged in the theater
ballet and opera performances.